on the 22nd of March 1999 a terrified
woman ran through the streets of New
Mexico naked she'd escaped after being
held captive by sadistic sexual torturer
David Parker ray
she wasn't his only victim I was scared
I don't know if he was gonna kill me or
not he could get a woman in virtually
any position
she was his sex slave more than 30 women
had passed through Parker Ray's torture
chamber the police suspected that many
of them had been murdered I've never had
any question that David Parker ray is a
serial killer the police launched a vast
search for bodies but Parker ray was
always one step ahead
David was a very intelligent individual
and took great lengths to make sure that
he was not discovered could one of
America's most prolific serial killers
get away with murder
[Music]
New Mexico a barren land with the second
highest murder rate in America
[Music]
cut off from the world by 40,000 square
miles of desert Truth or Consequences is
a town where people go about their
business and few questions are asked
population 6,000 and falling true the
consequences has kind of an undercurrent
of criminal activity we investigated a
murder where a guy who was stabbed 43
times and we had another murder where
guy beat his wife and put on a trunk of
the car burned her in the car then there
was a man found dead in his apartment he
had blue panties on and no other clothes
he had a doorknob inserted in his rectum
this is just a community where strange
bizarre crimes occur
on the 22nd of March 1999 the police
received a call that would open a case
far more shocking than anything that
seen before the call came from a
panicked local after 21 year-old Cynthia
V Hill burst into her house she was
naked except for a metal dog collar
attached to a 6-foot chain so the
officers arrived on the scene
Cynthia Till's telling them don't let
them get me they kidnapped me they tied
me up they raid me the officers of
course you know who and where and all
these questions are coming up in their
minds and sometimes it's really
difficult to get answers from a frantic
person
Cinthia V Hill was a prostitute with a
heroin addiction she said she was
abducted by a client and driven to a
house on the outskirts of Truth or
Consequences as far as when a police
officer is called to by an incident
bargain a prostitute that's always in
the officer's mind is what degree of
credibility do I give this lady
especially if it's a real bizarre story
the house belongs to David Parker ray a
59 year old mechanic Cynthia said that
she was on a bed in a kind of expanded
trailer house she was naked she was
handcuffed and she had a collar around
her neck which was attached to a pole
she was given a bucket for a toilet she
was sexually assaulted she was
repeatedly sexually assaulted she was
under the impression she was going to be
killed so she was desperate to get out
Cynthia V Hill said that she was held in
this house for three days on the third
day the MTV Hill said that a fight
ensued a lamp was broken
Cynthia V Hill then was able to escape
out the back door of this residence
Parker ray was arrested the police
obtained a search warrant for his house
to investigate the prostitutes
allegations
[Music]
once they go inside the house they find
where Cynthia had been held in the
sunken living room area they see the bed
they see the pole that there's some
chains and manacles there there's a
bucket with her waist on the floor
[Music]
there was obvious signs of a struggle
and disarray in the room obviously what
they saw did not look like the area of
somebody who had been kept there
voluntarily the such team also found a
collection of sinister sexual devices
everything that they were seeing did
nothing for them except to add evidence
and corroboration to what Cynthia their
victim was telling them
but nothing could prepare them for what
they would find inside a simple white
trailer at the side of Parker Ray's
house
wasn't really until the utility trailer
was open that we really began to get a
good understanding of what we were
potentially dealing with then Pandora's
box was open in the desert town of Truth
or Consequences prostitute Cynthia V
Hill was recovering in hospital she had
escaped from three days of sexual
torture at the hands of David Parker ray
Parker ray had been arrested he was a 59
year old mechanic and a father of two
foreign state Renuka Richard David Ray
he claimed that the prostitute had
agreed to a session of rough bondage yes
you do
at Parker Ray's house the police were
discovering the horrifying truth
the search team had arrived at a
seemingly innocuous white trailer it was
pretty pretty amazing it was remarkable
I'd never seen anything like it in my
life the first thing my eyes focused on
was this black chair which turned out to
be a gynecology chair just sitting there
empty
there was medical equipment and
everywhere drills modified drills with
sexual devices on them in cages I mean
it was just this unbelievable looking
den this was a torture chamber David
Paulk array cooled the trailer his toy
box or Satan's den to see it the first
time just kind of gave you a feeling of
sickness and it was just remarkable how
everything was set up everything in here
denoted pain everything in here denoted
destruction
there were several several items in
there that were obviously meticulously
crafted by hand and were very very
sinister David was known as very adept
with his hands as an excellent mechanic
by day Parker ray worked for the local
state park he was well respected for his
technical ability to those who knew him
he was not the kind of man who tortured
women in his spare time
oh he was just a real nice guy he just
real nice real smart
he was always eager to help these other
guys do things you know around here
these are some he made he named them
stink catchers that's a rope trim piece
of pipe just making anything it's for
the creative piece of work you get down
then he had an ankle spreader this looks
like something that he would have made
and he has a labeled ankle spreader he
could get a woman in virtually any
position that he wanted her in she was
his sex slave when they entered this
this trailer and then he had the dildo
fashioned out of looks like a plastic
pipe actually these are nails that have
been melted into this plastic collar and
this would be inserted in her vagina or
anal canal and he would work it and work
it until he could get it all the way in
and then they would have these spikes
here they're going to go in you're gonna
get poked it's going to be very painful
and rip their inner thighs out I have to
wonder how many people came in contact
with all this stuff
[Music]
Palka raise terrifying den was evidence
of a long campaign of sexual torture the
consensus was pretty clear that there
were gonna be additional victims here
for example the utility trailer was
taken apart virtually and we collected
trinkets rings necklaces jewelry they
came from somebody despite police
appeals for more women to come forward
Cynthia was still the only known victim
but as a prostitute and drug addict she
might not be believed in court the
police needed more credible witnesses
inside the toy box Paul Caray had set up
two video cameras the suspicion was that
he had recorded the suffering of his
captives it made sense to believe and
was logical to deduce that there were
videotapes somewhere and many many were
found who were probably a hundred at
least a hundred most of the tapes
contain nothing of relevance but one
would prove explosive
it showed Parker ray testing his
equipment
then it cut
and when it came back to life
Parker ray was with a captive
it's what you see here is the inside of
the toy box you see a youngish
blond-haired woman with david strapped
down naked he's standing over top of her
or kneeling next to her at all times
he's constantly touching her and it's
obvious that he's trying to get some
kind of sexual gratification out of this
she appeared to be unconscious or at
least unresponsive to anything he was
doing to her
this hasn't had any of the earmarks of a
consensual encounter between two people
who just enjoy this kind of behavior the
videotape was crucial evidence of
another victim but who she was was a
mystery we're looking at this videotape
and we need to know who this person is
he moves her leg at one point and what's
exposed on her right calf on the outside
of her right calf is a tattoo and you
can see it in the video but it's not
clear and it looks like a pretty you
know it looked like a pretty big tattoo
so we took this tape to the FBI to have
it enhanced once the image was enhanced
we provided that to the media very
shortly afterwards a woman came forward
and said that's my tattoo that's me
that tattoo I have is unique nobody else
has it Cali Van Cleave was a 25 year old
child minder she was a friend of Parker
Ray's daughter but had no recollection
of ever going to his house and no idea
or the FBI had a picture of her tattoo
they told me that it came off of a a
video they found in David's house - I
box as they called it it was weird and I
was scared
initially it was clear that she was
having difficulty remembering everything
that had happened to her in the utility
trailer and in her experience with David
before the FBI contacted me I used to
have nightmares of being tied to a table
or handcuffs or duct tape scared me but
I could never put any of it together and
then when the FBI called then I knew
they weren't just dreams nightmares they
were real
Kelly was struggling to remember the
details of what Parker Ray had done to
her but the police have made a chilling
discovery in Parker Ray's house which
would explain everything a tape
recording in his own voice that he
played to initiate his victims hello
there bitch I'm going to tell you in
detail why you have been kidnapped
what's going to happen to you
this was sinister stuff now you are
obviously here against your will
you're gonna be kept chained in a
variety of different positions usually
with your legs our knees forced wide
apart you'll be raped thoroughly and
repeatedly in every holy of God
midway through the tape revealed that
Kelly's memory loss may have been no
accident you're gonna be drugged up real
heavy with a combination ova sodium
pentothal and phenobarbital you're not
gonna remember a fucking thing about
this little adventure or what has
happened to you sodium pentothal and
phenobarbital numb pain and induce
amnesia
it seemed Parker Rae was using drugs to
control his victims and ensure they
would not remember his crimes maybe
explain some of the things that were
done to me being tied down and how
uncomfortable you're gonna feel and
being used as a sex slave Parker ray
release Kelly three days after taking a
captive confident that she would never
remember her ordeal
[Music]
[Laughter]
but as the police questioned her
memories started to surface over time
she was able to piece together elements
of her captivity in the toy box I didn't
know how long I had been there I could
see under the duct tape once in a while
had all kinds of six devices he whips
and chains and stuff I remember him
coming and going several times but I
don't know how many times when he was in
there he was in there for a long time I
was scared
I remember telling him that I wanted to
go home I didn't know if he was gonna
kill me or not
I don't ever remember drinking or eating
anything he let me up to use a porta
potty once but I was shackled to do that
I remember him using different kinds of
toys on me and they hurt
that's about all I remember
the police now had a credible witness
but not necessarily one who could get
Parker ray behind bars potential
weakness that she had she didn't
remember certain things she didn't have
a clear recollection of others and that
weakens the case and the overall picture
that the jury is going to be given of
exactly what David was up to the
prosecution needed more and by Paul
corazon admission there were many more
victims to find in his tape recordings
he indicated that he had been involved
in sexual assault since he was 15
David was arrested when he was 59 so he
has approximately 44 years of practice
as of the time this tape was made I've
taken 37 women for these purposes maybe
more but now with so many victims
unaccounted for
there was a fear that Parker Ray was
more than a sadistic torture he could be
a prolific serial killer
you are expendable it may sound harsh
and cold but I won't have any qualms at
all about slicing your throat if you
believe what David says on the tape is
true that he rapes and tortures women
there's no reason not to believe the
other parts about killing women and
disposing of their bodies is also true
death was a constantly resurfacing idea
from David not from us but from David in
his writings and his drawings in his
tapes everything revolved around death
I've never had any question that David
Parker ray is a serial killer there's
never been a doubt in my mind about it
whether the case was going to be a
murder trial would depend on whether we
could link gave it to the actual killing
of victims if Paul Caray was a serial
killer he lived in the perfect place to
hide the bodies
his house was on the shores of Elephant
Butte Lake
a43 miles long and 200 feet deep
it's the largest body of water in New
Mexico there was a map that we recovered
in David Parker Ray's house that was
just a map of the lake with X's on it
David had a sailboat a large skiff
sailing boat with depth finding
equipment and he knew that Lake very
very well and he knew where the deepest
places in that lake work I was hoping
that we were going to have a body I was
praying that we were going to have a
body there were overall like between two
and three full dive missions that were
performed there without being able to
locate any evidence that we could
connect definitively to the Parker ray
investigation David had the perfect job
if he wants to hide bodies or whatever
he had access to every nook and cranny
of Elephant Butte State Park he had
access to areas that are kept under lock
and key that keep the public away from
but to which he had access we searched
caves holes in the ground wells mines
lakes we searched everywhere we could
possibly think that was endlessly
frustrating
[Music]
the case against Parker ray was weak the
best witness had a patchy memory and
unless bodies could be found there was a
chance that a murderer would walk free
he was an intelligent man and capable of
going the extra mile and making an extra
effort especially when it came to this
kind of behavior to do what he needed to
do to avoid detection and I believe
that's what he did but Parker Ray hadn't
thought of everything
an extraordinary confession from one of
his acquaintances was about to blow the
investigation wide open police believed
that victims of David Parker Ray's
campaign of sexual torture were buried
in the New Mexico desert
but no bodies have been discovered and
the case against him was on rocky ground
the only known surviving victims were a
heroin addicted prostitute and a woman
whose memory of her captivity had been
scrambled by Parker Ray's cocktail of
drugs but Cali Van Cleave clearly
remembered what happened before she was
drugged in July 1996 she was abducted
from this once bustling bar on the
outskirts of Truth or Consequences we
rounded up a bunch of friends and went
bar-hopping and this is where we ended
up we always ended up here
no matter where we started this is where
we quit there used to be a little mini
bar sitting here pull tables right there
then we were playing pool and I had
ordered a beer and I left to take one of
my drunk friends home and came back and
some of my other friends left and at the
end of the evening it was just me and
Jessie
Jesse ray David's daughter Jessie agreed
to give Kelly a lift home but she drove
straight to her father's house the fact
that it was his own daughter kidnapping
just shows the depth of his resolve when
it came to this behavior and and also
showed his lack of emotional involvement
with just about anybody or anything I
just remember being on her couch her
dad's couch that's when they held the
knife to my throat
I put the dog collar on we duct tape and
handcuffs and I ended up tied to a table
Jesse ray was arrested for her role in
Kelly's abduction are you optimistic
that you'll be out soon what it wasn't
the only time she'd taken someone home
to meet her father
in July 1997 one year after Kelly's
abduction a friend of hers had gone
missing from the same bar Marie Parker
was a 21 year old mother of two it was
almost midnight and she said she was
gonna go home and check out her kids
she'd be right back by the time the bar
closed at 2:00 o'clock she still wasn't
there and her car was still there so but
somebody said Jesse followed Maria
no one has heard from the reap our
curses that night she had two little
girls there was no way she was gonna
leave her kids so I knew something had
happened the similarities between
Kelly's abduction and Marie's
disappearance seemed unlikely to be
coincidence she's a woman that
disappeared about two years ago you know
with Marie Parker we knew he was
involved but we didn't have enough
information or evidence to pin anything
on him you were a part of that on the
night Marie disappeared
Jessie Ray had been at the bar with a
friend of her father's called Roy Yancy
the police suspected he was an
accomplice and brought him in for
questioning his statement was
astonishing
from what I understand is that he's had
many years of kidnapping and torturing
and killing women from the story that
Roy gave was that Marie Parker had in
fact been a victim of David Parker ray
that she had been abducted while she was
in the toy box she was systematically
tortured over a period of a couple of
days when she wasn't being tortured she
was placed on a cot and slid underneath
a part of the the the wall and the toy
box that they could shut and lock and at
the end of all of this the information
that Roy Yancy gave us was that he was
instructed to kill Marie Parker by
strangulation how did you come up with
the idea to kill Marie David Ray
Parker's idea that's pretty remarkable
it just seemed like it went up to a
different level and each level went up
to it became more overwhelming and then
I began to wonder just know where is it
gonna end I know they ended up giving me
a rope and telling me - okay but you
think he wouldn't die in fast enough was
he struggling or yes
we have no doubt that his statement was
accurate his details were such that it's
unquestionable that Roy Yancy killed
Marie Parker I was told not to tell
anybody anything or I was gonna be
killed and thrown into dips and who told
you that
if rui NC could take the police to Marie
Parker's body that finally have the
evidence to link Parker ray to murder
David and Roy according to Roy Yancy
took the body out to a remote location
in the desert rolled it down a ravine
covered it up with a little bit of dirt
and then drove back and Roy was very
specific and detailed about the location
where this happened he remembered he
said pretty well where this was we felt
it if we were able to locate this body
it was going to be a domino effect and
soon this was going to lead to more and
more and more we spent the better part
of a week with Roy Yancy going to
several different locations we had 40
people out looking in these areas we had
helicopters out looking in these areas
and still we weren't able to recover a
body and Roy's I guess hypothesis which
seems to be credible and make sense is
that David returned to that location
after the body had been disposed of and
relocated it yet again David Paulk array
had been meticulous in avoiding
detection we spent a great deal of time
chasing an intelligent man who was well
versed in what he was doing and and
certainly able to cover his tracks very
effectively
we were always one step behind him
there's thousands upon thousands of deep
narrow ravines nooks and crannies and
where do you look we could be standing
above her right now and never know it
and I often wonder how close did we
actually come to to her or some of the
victims during the course of this Roy
Yancy pleaded guilty to second-degree
murder and was sentenced to 20 years but
David Parker ray maintained his
innocence and without Mary Parker's body
murder charges could not be brought
against him it's extremely frustrating
to know that he's committed murders and
yet not have sufficient evidence to
bring this matter to a resolution in a
court of law but the fact that we
couldn't prosecute him for murder made
it all the more important that was
successfully prosecuted for the rape
torture
kidnappings that we could prove in court
that he did
the trial of David Parker ray began on
the 29th of June 2000 his fate now lay
entirely in the hands of Kelli Van Cleve
despite her patchy memory she would have
to convince a jury that he had kidnapped
and sexually tortured her
I didn't want to go to court I didn't
have to go face him but I did it
he couldn't be out on the streets any
longer had to do it
because I had to do what I could to save
other women as Kelly took the stand
Parker Rae was just feet away it was the
first time she'd seen him since her
captivity he was just sitting there with
a smug look on his face and it pissed me
off he acted like he was totally
innocent and he had done nothing wrong I
didn't want to cry and let him know how
much he hurt me I didn't want to be his
victim that was difficult
Kelly explained what she could of her
ordeal in the toy box but under
cross-examination she was attacked
rigorously the defense point-of-view
has to be in this case that she's not a
credible witness and therefore should
not be believed because she couldn't
remember what happened you sit up there
on the stand and wonder are these guys
gonna believe me David's story was that
she came over quite willingly that I had
some beers and that she had consensual
sex that the the sex became kinkier as
she stayed longer and that he cleaned
her up and sent her home at the end of
it just lies I think that was the most
difficult part was all the lies that
they said I could have faced David
without the lies people often do things
that they can't live with and so they
have to change the way they feel about
what happened or the way they report
what happened or the way they feel about
themselves to account for that
the defense's claims that Kelly had
consented to be in the toy box were
contradicted by Park RA himself on the
initiation tape that he played his
victims you are obviously here against
your will you'll be raped thoroughly and
repeatedly in every holy of God but
there was a problem Kelly could not
remember if Parker Rae had played the
tape to her so the judge ruled it was
not relevant the jury was not allowed to
hear it the suppression of the audio
tape weakened our case because they were
not able to hear David's actual planning
preparation and his own voice they're
going to be kept like an animal as far
as I'm concerned you're a pretty piece
of meat your pussy and asshole is gonna
get a real workout this was essentially
a confession the prosecution did have
one more weapon to draw on the video
footage of Parker ray torturing Kelly in
the toy box
when you look at the tape you see that
there's no evidence of injury because
he's not beating her he's touching her
gently he caresses her breast he lightly
rubs her stomach he lightly rubs her
arms she's able to sit there and loosen
up her joints and the way you would if
you'd done something strenuous and that
was our interpretation of the tape
I knew the defense was gonna try to turn
everything around on me but I didn't
think that with the tape I figured
everybody would know everybody could see
I wasn't there willingly after a
two-week trial the jury retired to
consider whether Kelly's testimony was
enough to lock up our Caray for life
Kelly's the one who the jury has to
believe in order for them to return a
guilty verdict I didn't think there was
going to be any way that a jury would
come back with a not guilty verdict in
this when they finally made a decision
and everybody got back to the courtroom
I knew it was gonna be a guilty verdict
it had to have been a guilty verdict
they fooled me the judge required a
unanimous decision and on July the 13th
2000 the jury announced the verdict some
jurors did not believe Kelly's testimony
so Parker ray could not be convicted it
was a hung jury when they came back with
a hung jury verdict I about fainted
literally I didn't understand it the
decision was made to retry the case this
time with a different jury and a
different judge I didn't want to go
through court again but I had to he was
not gonna hurt anybody else
[Music]
nine months after the first trial ended
the retrial got underway in a boost to
the prosecution the new judge decided
that Parker Ray's initiation tape was
relevant to the case and allowed it to
be heard
Parker raised voice filled the courtroom
hello there bitch here probably think
you're gonna be raped and you're buckin
sure right about that remember hearing
his voice and it sends shivers down my
spine you're not gonna remember a
fucking thing about this little
adventure it was like you could cut
through the air with a knife as far as
I'm concerned you're a pretty piece of
meat be smart and be a survivor
have a nice day the audiotape was a
crucial piece of evidence
but everything rested on Kelly's
testimony for Parker ray to be found
guilty
Kelly would have to take the stand once
again and convinced the entire jury that
she had been kidnapped and tortured I
was vulnerable I was scared but I was
angry that he got away with the first
one
was he gonna get away with the second
one the police believe that David Parker
ray was a serial killer but as no bodies
had been found
he couldn't be charged with murder
instead he had been tried for the kidnap
rape and torture of Kelly Van Cleave but
at the first trial the jury had been
unable to agree unanimously that he was
guilty at the retrial once again
everything rested on Kelly unless her
testimony was believed by the entire
jury the charges against Parker ray
could be dropped it's very difficult to
tell people you don't know intimate
things sexual things about your life we
tested her credibility in the fire of
cross-examination and trial twice her
life must have been hell I think it was
harder the second time than it was the
first time because I had already been
there I already had to tell my my story
to thousands of people I didn't know
[Music]
and that first jury didn't believe me on
April the 16th 2001 after a week-long
trial the jury retired to consider what
they'd heard it took them just five
hours to reach a unanimous verdict I was
sweating I didn't know what they were
gonna say had no idea
[Music]
we got guilty
then they got 224 years in prison
and we partied do you believe Kelly's
version of events was true so the
question is whether I believe that she
was abducted by the REA family and held
captive and and raped and tortured yeah
I believe it but you'll his defense
attorney you seem to be saying that your
client is guilty I do seem to be saying
that Don I in a deal with the
prosecution David Parker ray gave up his
right to appeal in return his daughter
Jessie was released without trial for
her role in Kelly's abduction I knew
that not everybody I would ever defend
would be innocent I knew that some of
the people that I represented would be
truly bad people and I believe that on
the spectrum of people who do not belong
in society David Parker ray is right in
there
[Music]
was justice done don't think justice can
ever be done in these types of cases
what David did to these women no amount
of punishment to him can take away what
those women have to live with David took
too much of me away I feel like I'm a
totally different person I don't go
anywhere I don't trust anybody I miss
the old me
the one that used to be wild and crazy
and sassy and wasn't scared
I would do just about anything to get
the old lay back
I wish he wouldn't have died I want him
alive
I would ask him why why me why did he
take me home why didn't he kill me I
wish he was still alive so he could tell
us what happened to all those other
girls where he buried him how he killed
them so those other families could have
some closure
[Music]
you